# most-valuable-fouler-nba

Basketball, much like any sport, has rules that penalize teams for breaking the rules, which in turn reward the team who has had the rules broken against them.  Now this is an incredibly generalized introduction to fouls in basketball, an event in which a player initiates contact with another, resulting in a reward to the team of the player interfered with.  This usually gives a team possession of the basketball or free throws, uncontested attempts at scoring points.  The typical field goal shot in basketball is worth two points, but a foul during the attempt of this shot, where the player doesn't make the shot, gives that player two free throws, each worth one point.  This presents an interesting caveat, as fouling can now be strategic.  Instead of giving a player an easy, short-range shot for two points, it can be valuable to guarantee they don't make said shot and have to make two longer shots to earn the same number of points.

This strategy has become extremely effective, especially late in games for trailing teams, trading smaller quantities of points (0 or 1 points) for time and possessions (which are opportunities to potentially score 2 or 3 points and make a dent in a deficit).  A couple of the infamous players this has been effective against are Andre Drummond and Andre Roberson, as both are complete liabilities from the free throw line.

The purpose of this project is to explore which players, in the 2015-16 season, committed better fouls and what value that provided to their teams.  A lot of these results are luck and random circumstance found in a high-speed professional sport, which shouldn't imply a large amount of significance into the players who are the best or worst foulers in the NBA in 2015-16, but it is an interesting concept to explore, and these results are tangible in terms of the value provided to their team in a specific circumstance.
